.\" Manpage for dotsig.
.\" Contact greg@evi.as to correct errors or typos.
.TH dotsig 1 "02 May 2024" "1.0" "dotsig User Manual"
.SH NAME
\fBdotsig\fP \- Sign a message or file with DSA and verify digital signatures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dotsig
[-vhcDq] [-i id_file] [-P pub_key] [-a algo] [-p passphrase] [file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dotsig
is a high level shell program that lets you create and verify digital signatures
using RSA cryptography (PKCS1 v1.5), PGP and elliptic-curve cryptography, ECDSA.
.PP
This software is inspired by the numerous Unix programs in that it can be used
for the singular task of creating- or verifying digital signatures. The input(s)
to \fIdotsig\fP can be piped via the standard input, and it accepts multiple
files to be signed or verified individually.
.PP
As shown in the examples below, creating a digital signature for a message is
trivial and can be achieved with one of the following commands:
.br
.RS 2
\fB$ echo 'Your Message' | dotsig\fP
.br
\fB$ dotsig < path/to/file\fP
.br
\fB$ dotsig < path/to/file > path/to/signature.sig\fP
.br
\fB$ dotsig path/to/file\fP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.I dotsig
allows several options to be passed to the program, none of these are required.
The following options are accepted:
.RS 2
.PP
\fBfile ...\fR
.br
.RS 2
Determines the document(s) to sign/verify. e.g.: path/to/document1 document2
.RE
.br
\fB\-p passphrase\fR
.br
.RS 2
Uses given passphrase to unlock the identity file.
.RE
.br
\fB\-a algo\fR
.br
.RS 2
Uses given DSA standard. Supported are: "ecdsa", "pkcs", "openpgp", "openpgp:dsa",
"openpgp:ecdsa" and "openpgp:eddsa".
.RE
.br
\fB\-i id_file\fR
.br
.RS 2
Uses given identity file (e.g.: id_rsa).
.RE
.br
\fB\-P pub_key\fR
.br
.RS 2
Uses given public key file (e.g.: id_rsa.pub).
.RE
.br
\fB\-v\fR
.br
.RS 2
Prints the program version information.
.RE
.br
\fB\-h\fR
.br
.RS 2
Prints the help message and usage examples.
.RE
.br
\fB\-c\fR
.br
.RS 2
Enables the verification mode for digital signatures.
.RE
.br
\fB\-D\fR
.br
.RS 2
Enables the debug mode for the program.
.RE
.br
\fB\-q\fR
.br
.RS 2
Enables the quiet mode for the program.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To sign or verify a \fIfile\fP with \fBECDSA\fP and your default identity, use:
.br
.RS 2
\fBdotsig\fP \fIpath/to/document\fP
.br
\fBdotsig -c\fP \fIpath/to/signature.sig\fP
.RE
.PP
To sign or verify a \fIfile\fP with \fBPKCS\fP and your default identity, use:
.br
.RS 2
\fBdotsig -a pkcs\fP \fIpath/to/document\fP
.br
\fBdotsig -c -a pkcs\fP \fIpath/to/signature.sig\fP
.RE
.PP
To sign/verify a \fImessage\fP with \fBECDSA\fP and your default identity, use:
.br
.RS 2
\fBecho 'Hello, World!' | dotsig\fP
.br
\fBecho 'Hello, World!' | dotsig -c\fP \fIpath/to/signature.sig\fP
.RE
.PP
To sign/verify a \fImessage\fP with \fBECDSA\fP and your default identity, use:
.br
.RS 2
\fBecho 'Hello, World!' | dotsig -a pkcs\fP
.br
\fBecho 'Hello, World!' | dotsig -c -a pkcs\fP \fIpath/to/signature.sig\fP
.RE
.PP
Example of a full-cycle of creation of a digital signature and later
.br
verification of the produced signature file (using STDIN):
.br
.RS 2
\fBecho 'Hello, World!' | dotsig\fP
.br
\fBecho 'Hello, World!' | dotsig -c stdin.sig\fP
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
botan(1)
.SH BUGS
.I dotsig
is able to consume data that gets piped to it via standard input; yet it will
require the user to \fIstop input\fP using Ctrl+D on Unix systems and Ctrl+Z on
Windows systems. While this may not be directly a bug, it is not intentional
and therefor listed as a known issue.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2024 Grégory Saive <greg@evi.as> for re:Software S.L. (resoftware.es).
.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.PP
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.PP
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.PP
3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors
   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
   specific prior written permission.
.PP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS “AS IS” AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.